# Introduction to Software Engineering
Although the language used throughout these videos is aimed primarily at data scientists, know these skills and their applications are relevant for many professions in software. Potential careers include, but are not limited to:

* Data Scientists
  * Research
  * Explore data
  * Model data
* Software Engineers
  * Build products
  * Write production code
* Machine Learning Engineers
* Quality Software Engineers
* Database Administrators
## How this Course is Organized
* Software Engineering Practices Part 1 covers how to write well documented, modularized code.
* Software Engineering Practices Part 2 discusses testing your code and logging.
* Introduction to Object-Oriented Programming gives you an overview of this programming style and prepares you to write your own Python package.
* Introduction to Web Development covers building a web application data dashboard.
## Course Portfolio Exercises
The software engineering course has two portfolio exercises: building a Python package and developing a web data dashboard. These exercises are NOT reviewed and are NOT required to graduate from the data scientist nanodegree program. In other words, you will not submit either of the portfolio projects to the Udacity review system. Instead, you can use these projects to practice your software engineering skills and then add the projects to your professional portfolio.

Having said that, the skills covered in this course will set you up for success in other Udacity courses with required projects. For example, the data engineering for data scientists course has a required project where you are expected to write clean, concise and well-documented code. You will also have an easier time with that project if you understand the fundamentals of object-oriented programming and a basic understanding of how the backend and frontend of a website works.

## Andrew Data Scientist 1-min Elevator Pitch
hi I'm a Content developer here at Udacity, and I previously worked on the self-driving car nanodegree program. I have a bachelor's degree in mechanical engineering you might ask yourself why someone who studied engineering would be teaching data science. Well my interest in data came after college when I spent a year studying in Peru. While I was there I started a jewelry business with the Peruvian friend. At first it was just the two of us, the jeweler and me, the engineer. I think you can guess which one of us became the jewelry designer and which one had to learn web development, data analysis and machine learning. To give a couple of examples of how we've used data science and analysis, I made a linear regression model that helps us price new designs. I've also analyzed web traffic and keyword searches to make
content better. Over the span of one year I increased unique monthly visitors from 1,000 to 12,000 and that's without spending anything on marketing. I learned to code and analyze data the exact same way you were doing right now by taking online classes and then making awesome projects. I'm proof that someone with a non computer science background can still be a proficient programmer.

## Juno Data Scientist 3-mins Pitch
I want to tell you about two experiences that demonstrate how software engineering has always been an essential tool in my data science work. My first experience is about my previous job, where I've worked as a data scientist at a small startup. There, my work involved several machine learning and deep learning projects, where personalized shopping experiences for users and built analytic tools for the business. Although I was excited that my work touched on many different areas in data science, one unexpected part was how much software engineering I learned and applied. Almost everyone else was more of a software engineer, with roles ranging from web and mobile developer to systems architect. To implement my data science ideas and bring them to production, I had to use the proper practices and tools used in software development. Applying these practices, really allowed me to collaborate effectively with other developers and set up my data science code to work well in production. Since this specific job was at a startup, I did get more involved in the software engineering side of things, than I would at a larger company. But like we mentioned earlier, there are significant benefits to using software engineering practices as a data scientist in any context. This leads me to my second experience about my first major project. Before even landing my first data science job, there used to be a calendar app that I organized my life with and loved. When I heard it was being taken down from the App Store, I decided to build my own version. I wanted to take it a step further and build the chatbot that would automatically create calendar entries for me, and answer questions I had about my schedule. I used my data science skills to create a chatbot that classified messages and generated appropriate responses. But I didn't know anything about web development, and wasn't sure where to start. So, I took an online course in web development. I figured out how to build a web app that integrated with the chatbot and Google calendar's API, and set up servers to host it online. In the end, I needed both data science skills and software engineering skills, to build my calendar app. But it was worth it because I was able to bring my vision to reality with this powerful combination of skills. It can seem intimidating to start learning about software engineering and how to apply it to your data science work, but that's why we're here, to walk you through it. I gained valuable knowledge and skills with resources online and on the job, and I know you can too. Andrew and I will be showing you some of the tricks we've learned so that you can start incorporating useful software engineering practices as a data scientist.
